   Bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies draw much attention from speculators recently for their significant price volatility. Despite the massive innovations in decentralized governance and trustless peer-to-peer transactions [1], volatile prices have hampered the mainstream adoption of these cryptocurrencies. Behind the price fluctuations are the contradiction between uncertain demand and deterministic supply of coins and tokens [2]. Without price stability, cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin can never be widely used as a medium of exchange, let alone a financial system or economy based on them.
In this whitepaper, we propose a solution to price volatility by introducing USDX, a decentralized monetary policy protocol in which the token can be pegged to any specific value indicator via automatic supply adjustment based on blockchain technology and artificial intelligence. USDX protocol could be understood as implementing monetary policy without human discretion. To strengthen the resilience of the system, we also introduce USDX Reserve as a fallback mechanism.
There are two phases in this protocol, divided by the pegging day. In the first phase, the Genesis Phase, the supply of USDX token is fixed and the price will be volatile. In the second phase, the Stable Phase, the supply is adjustable so that the price can be stable. Our first goal is to peg a USDX token to USD. We name this token USDX as X represents the uncertainty in price before the pegging day. After USDX is generally accepted by the market, the protocol can also be used to generate new tokens pegged to other value indicators, such as CNY, a basket of currencies and even a basket of goods.
Keywords: price stability, stable token, monetary policy, decentralization
